README.md, before:

# Tic Tac Toe

Tic Tac Toe is a Javascript game built to allow users to play (two players) for fun. It was designed to be simple and entertaining for two players.

![Mock Up](/docs/readme-images/mockup.png)

[Tic Tac Toe Live Link](https://neelp20.github.io/Tic-Tac-Toe/)

## Features

#### Landing Page
* The first page gives the instructions to play the game:

   * A link will be on home page that when clicked will direct the user to the Game page.
   * This will allow users to easily navigate between the pages within the site on any device size.

   ![Full view](/docs/readme-images/home-screenshot.png)
* Favicon
   * A site wide favicon will be implemented with a tic tac toe logo.
   * This will be helpful for the user to identify the website easily if they have multiple tabs open.

![Favicon](/docs/readme-images/favicon-screenshot.png)
* 404 Page
   * A 404 page will be implemented and will be displayed if a user navigates to a broken link.
   * The 404 page will allow the user to easily navigate back to the main website, without the need of the browsers back button.

![404 Page](/docs/readme-images/404-screenshot.png)
* Game Start Button
   * A button will be on the home page that when clicked will direct the user to the main game page.
   * This will allow the user to start the game after they have read the instructions to play.

![Game Start Button](/docs/readme-images/start-game.png)

* Game Page

![Game Page](/docs/readme-images/gamepage-screenshot.png)
* Navbar
   * Contains tic tac toe logo on the left side of the page.
   * On the right side, contains link to the Instruction page and will be responsive on all devices.

![Navbar](/docs/readme-images/nav-screenshot.png)


* Scoreboard
   * Above the game board, scoreboard will be displayed to show the score/draw. It will be updated once the player gets three in a row or a draw.
   
   
   

![Scoreboard](/docs/readme-images/scoreboard-screenshot.png)
* Game Board
   * A nine boxes will be blank when the page is loaded.
   * User will be able to click on them to play the game.
   * A "Sound" can be turned on/off while playing the game.

![Gameboard](/docs/readme-images/gameboard-screenshot.png)
* Reset Game Button
   * "Reset Game" will reset the game board and score board.
   
![Reset Game](/docs/readme-images/resetgame-screenshot.png)
* New Game Button
   * "New Game" will clear the board, but keep the score on scoreboard.

![New Game](/docs/readme-images/newgame-screenshot.png)

## The Game
 * The game starts with blank boxes, and always player O begins the game.
 * Next is player X's turn.
 * Once the boxes are clicked, can not be changed back.
 * When someone gets three in a row, the board will be locked until "Reset Game" or "New Game" is clicked.
 * When all 9 squares are filled and neither player has three in a row, the game is a draw.
 * Messages indicating a win or a draw will appear via an "Alert".

 ### Winning Conditions
In this game with nine boxes, there are eight winning conditions.
* [ 0, 1, 2 ]
* [ 0, 3, 6 ]
* [ 0, 4, 8 ]
* [ 1, 4, 7 ]
* [ 2, 5, 8 ]
* [ 2, 4, 6 ]
* [ 3, 4, 5 ]
* [ 6, 7, 8 ]

### Example of three scenarios


* When player O wins the game.

![Player O wins is winner](/docs/readme-images/winnerO-screenshot.png)

* When player X wins the game.

![Player X is winner](/docs/readme-images/winnerX-screenshot.png)

* When its a Draw.

![It's a draw](/docs/readme-images/draw-screenshot.png)

### Features left to implement
   * Add functionality to play the game against computer.

## Wireframes

- Home Page

![Home page wireframe](/docs/wireframes/home-wireframes.png)

- Game Page

![Game page wireframe](/docs/wireframes/gamepage-wireframe.png)

- 404 Page

![404 page wireframe](/docs/wireframes/404-wireframe.png)

## Technologies

- HTML
  - The structure of the website was developed using HTML as the main language.
- CSS
  - The website was styled using custom CSS in an external file.
- Javascript
  - The game play logic was created using Javascript in an external file.
- Visual Studio Code
  - The website was developed using Visual Studio Code IDE.
- GitHub
  - Source code is hosted on GitHub and deployed using Git pages.
- Git
  - Used to commit and push code during the development of the website.
- Favicon.io
  - Favicon files were created at https://favicon.io/favicon-converter/
- balsamiq
  - Wireframes were craeted using balsamiq from https://balsamiq.com/wireframes/desktop/#
- Font Awesome
  - Icon obtained from https://fontawesome.com/ was used for Home icon on Game page header.

  

## Testing

### Responsiveness

All pages were tested to ensure responsiveness on screen sizes from 320px and upwards as defined.

Steps to test:

1. Open browser and navigate to [Tic Tac Toe](https://neelp20.github.io/Tic-Tac-Toe/)
2. Open the developer tools (right click and inspect)
3. Set the responsive and decrease width to 320px
4. Set the zoom to 50%
5. Click and drag the responsive window to maximum width

Expected:

Website behaved as expected.

Website was also opened on the following devices and no responsive issues were seen:

- iphone SE
- pixel 7
- Galaxy Z Fold 5
- Surface pro 7



**Game Board**

Testing was done to ensure the correct messages were displayed at the appropriate time by playing the game. The following messages are displayed(alert):

* Congratulations, Winner is O.
* Congratulations, Winner is X.
* It's a draw.

All messages were displayed(alert) as expected.

**Validator Testing**

- HTML
  - No errors were returned when passing through the official [W3C validator](https://validator.w3.org)

![Home Page](/docs/readme-images/home-validator.png)

![Game Page](/docs/readme-images/game-validator.png)

![404 Page](/docs/readme-images/404-validator.png)

- CSS
 - No errors were found when passing through the official [(Jigsaw) validator](https://jigsaw.w3.org)

![CSS Validator Results](/docs/readme-images/cssvalidator-screenshot.png)

- Javascript
 - No errors were found when passing through the [Jshint validator](https://jshint.com)
 - A warning appeared for one variable as an undefined variable.
 - A const/esversion warnings, Couldn't find a way to silence them since its very common in jshint.

![Javascript Validator Results](/docs/readme-images/javascript-validator.png)

**Lighthouse Report**

![Lighthouse report](/docs/readme-images/home-lighthouse.png)

![Lighthouse report](/docs/readme-images/gamepage-lighthouse.png)

![Lighthouse report](/docs/readme-images/404-lighthouse.png)


## Deployment

### Version Control

The site was created using the Visual Studio Code editor and pushed to github to the remote repository ‘Tic-Tac-Toe’.

The following git commands were used throughout development to push code to the remote repo:

```git add <file>``` - This command was used to add the file(s) to the staging area before they are committed.

```git commit -m “commit message”``` - This command was used to commit changes to the local repository queue ready for the final step.

```git push``` - This command was used to push all committed code to the remote repository on github.

### Deployment to Github Pages

- The site was deployed to GitHub pages. The steps to deploy are as follows:
  - In the GitHub repository, navigate to the Settings tab
  - From the menu on left select 'Pages'
  - From the source section drop-down menu, select the Branch: main
  - Click 'Save'
  - A live link will be displayed in a green banner when published successfully.

The live link can be found here - https://neelp20.github.io/Tic-Tac-Toe/

### Clone the Repository Code Locally

Navigate to the GitHub Repository you want to clone to use locally:

- Click on the code drop down button
- Click on HTTPS
- Copy the repository link to the clipboard
- Open your IDE of choice (git must be installed for the next steps)
- Type git clone copied-git-url into the IDE terminal

The project will now have been cloned on your local machine for use.

## Credits

* [For Confetti](https://www.npmjs.com/package/js-confetti)
  * [Youtube Channel](iEatWebsites)
* Website logo was downloaded from google.
* My Mentor Gareth McGirr for his guidance and support throughout my project.

Commit message:

Add WAVE Accessibility details in readme file

README.md, after:

# Tic Tac Toe

Tic Tac Toe is a Javascript game built to allow users to play (two players) for fun. It was designed to be simple and entertaining for two players.

![Mock Up](/docs/readme-images/mockup.png)

[Tic Tac Toe Live Link](https://neelp20.github.io/Tic-Tac-Toe/)

## Features

#### Landing Page
* The first page gives the instructions to play the game:

   * A link will be on home page that when clicked will direct the user to the Game page.
   * This will allow users to easily navigate between the pages within the site on any device size.

   ![Full view](/docs/readme-images/home-screenshot.png)
* Favicon
   * A site wide favicon will be implemented with a tic tac toe logo.
   * This will be helpful for the user to identify the website easily if they have multiple tabs open.

![Favicon](/docs/readme-images/favicon-screenshot.png)
* 404 Page
   * A 404 page will be implemented and will be displayed if a user navigates to a broken link.
   * The 404 page will allow the user to easily navigate back to the main website, without the need of the browsers back button.

![404 Page](/docs/readme-images/404-screenshot.png)
* Game Start Button
   * A button will be on the home page that when clicked will direct the user to the main game page.
   * This will allow the user to start the game after they have read the instructions to play.

![Game Start Button](/docs/readme-images/start-game.png)

* Game Page

![Game Page](/docs/readme-images/gamepage-screenshot.png)
* Navbar
   * Contains tic tac toe logo on the left side of the page.
   * On the right side, contains link to the Instruction page and will be responsive on all devices.

![Navbar](/docs/readme-images/nav-screenshot.png)


* Scoreboard
   * Above the game board, scoreboard will be displayed to show the score/draw. It will be updated once the player gets three in a row or a draw.
   
   
   

![Scoreboard](/docs/readme-images/scoreboard-screenshot.png)
* Game Board
   * A nine boxes will be blank when the page is loaded.
   * User will be able to click on them to play the game.
   * A "Sound" can be turned on/off while playing the game.

![Gameboard](/docs/readme-images/gameboard-screenshot.png)
* Reset Game Button
   * "Reset Game" will reset the game board and score board.
   
![Reset Game](/docs/readme-images/resetgame-screenshot.png)
* New Game Button
   * "New Game" will clear the board, but keep the score on scoreboard.

![New Game](/docs/readme-images/newgame-screenshot.png)

## The Game
 * The game starts with blank boxes, and always player O begins the game.
 * Next is player X's turn.
 * Once the boxes are clicked, can not be changed back.
 * When someone gets three in a row, the board will be locked until "Reset Game" or "New Game" is clicked.
 * When all 9 squares are filled and neither player has three in a row, the game is a draw.
 * Messages indicating a win or a draw will appear via an "Alert".

 ### Winning Conditions
In this game with nine boxes, there are eight winning conditions.
* [ 0, 1, 2 ]
* [ 0, 3, 6 ]
* [ 0, 4, 8 ]
* [ 1, 4, 7 ]
* [ 2, 5, 8 ]
* [ 2, 4, 6 ]
* [ 3, 4, 5 ]
* [ 6, 7, 8 ]

### Example of three scenarios


* When player O wins the game.

![Player O wins is winner](/docs/readme-images/winnerO-screenshot.png)

* When player X wins the game.

![Player X is winner](/docs/readme-images/winnerX-screenshot.png)

* When its a Draw.

![It's a draw](/docs/readme-images/draw-screenshot.png)

### Features left to implement
   * Add functionality to play the game against computer.

## Wireframes

- Home Page

![Home page wireframe](/docs/wireframes/home-wireframes.png)

- Game Page

![Game page wireframe](/docs/wireframes/gamepage-wireframe.png)

- 404 Page

![404 page wireframe](/docs/wireframes/404-wireframe.png)

## Technologies

- HTML
  - The structure of the website was developed using HTML as the main language.
- CSS
  - The website was styled using custom CSS in an external file.
- Javascript
  - The game play logic was created using Javascript in an external file.
- Visual Studio Code
  - The website was developed using Visual Studio Code IDE.
- GitHub
  - Source code is hosted on GitHub and deployed using Git pages.
- Git
  - Used to commit and push code during the development of the website.
- Favicon.io
  - Favicon files were created at https://favicon.io/favicon-converter/
- balsamiq
  - Wireframes were craeted using balsamiq from https://balsamiq.com/wireframes/desktop/#
- Font Awesome
  - Icon obtained from https://fontawesome.com/ was used for Home icon on Game page header.

  

## Testing

### Responsiveness

All pages were tested to ensure responsiveness on screen sizes from 320px and upwards as defined in [WCAG 2.1 Reflow criteria for responsive design](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/reflow.html).

Steps to test:

1. Open browser and navigate to [Tic Tac Toe](https://neelp20.github.io/Tic-Tac-Toe/)
2. Open the developer tools (right click and inspect)
3. Set the responsive and decrease width to 320px
4. Set the zoom to 50%
5. Click and drag the responsive window to maximum width

Expected:

Website behaved as expected.
No elements overlap.

Website was also opened on the following devices and no responsive issues were seen:

- iphone SE
- pixel 7
- Galaxy Z Fold 5
- Surface pro 7

### Accessibility

[Wave Accessibility](https://wave.webaim.org/) tool was used throughout development and for final testing of the deployed website to check for any aid accessibility testing.

Testing was focused to ensure the following criteria were met:

- Color contrasts meet a minimum ratio as specified in [WCAG 2.1 Contrast Guidelines](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/contrast-minimum.html)
- Heading levels are not missed or skipped to ensure the importance of content is relayed correctly to the end user
- Aria properties have been implemented correctly
- HTML page lang attribute has been set
- WCAG 2.1 Coding best practices being followed

Manual tests were also performed to ensure the website was accessible

**Navigation Links**

Testing was performed to ensure all navigation links on the respective pages, navigated to the correct pages as per design. This was done by clicking on the navigation links on each page.

| Navigation Link | Page to Load    |
| --------------- | --------------- |
| Home            | index.html      |
| Start the game  | game.html       |



**Game Board**

Testing was done to ensure the correct messages were displayed at the appropriate time by playing the game. The following messages are displayed(alert):

* Congratulations, Winner is O.
* Congratulations, Winner is X.
* It's a draw.

All messages were displayed(alert) as expected.

**Validator Testing**

- HTML
  - No errors were returned when passing through the official [W3C validator](https://validator.w3.org)

![Home Page](/docs/readme-images/home-validator.png)

![Game Page](/docs/readme-images/game-validator.png)

![404 Page](/docs/readme-images/404-validator.png)

- CSS
 - No errors were found when passing through the official [(Jigsaw) validator](https://jigsaw.w3.org)

![CSS Validator Results](/docs/readme-images/cssvalidator-screenshot.png)

- Javascript
 - No errors were found when passing through the [Jshint validator](https://jshint.com)
 - A warning appeared for one variable as an undefined variable.
 - A const/esversion warnings, Couldn't find a way to silence them since its very common in jshint.

![Javascript Validator Results](/docs/readme-images/javascript-validator.png)

**Lighthouse Report**

![Lighthouse report](/docs/readme-images/home-lighthouse.png)

![Lighthouse report](/docs/readme-images/gamepage-lighthouse.png)

![Lighthouse report](/docs/readme-images/404-lighthouse.png)


## Deployment

### Version Control

The site was created using the Visual Studio Code editor and pushed to github to the remote repository ‘Tic-Tac-Toe’.

The following git commands were used throughout development to push code to the remote repo:

```git add <file>``` - This command was used to add the file(s) to the staging area before they are committed.

```git commit -m “commit message”``` - This command was used to commit changes to the local repository queue ready for the final step.

```git push``` - This command was used to push all committed code to the remote repository on github.

### Deployment to Github Pages

- The site was deployed to GitHub pages. The steps to deploy are as follows:
  - In the GitHub repository, navigate to the Settings tab
  - From the menu on left select 'Pages'
  - From the source section drop-down menu, select the Branch: main
  - Click 'Save'
  - A live link will be displayed in a green banner when published successfully.

The live link can be found here - https://neelp20.github.io/Tic-Tac-Toe/

### Clone the Repository Code Locally

Navigate to the GitHub Repository you want to clone to use locally:

- Click on the code drop down button
- Click on HTTPS
- Copy the repository link to the clipboard
- Open your IDE of choice (git must be installed for the next steps)
- Type git clone copied-git-url into the IDE terminal

The project will now have been cloned on your local machine for use.

## Credits

* [For Confetti](https://www.npmjs.com/package/js-confetti)
  * [Youtube Channel](iEatWebsites)
* Website logo was downloaded from google.
* My Mentor Gareth McGirr for his guidance and support throughout my project.
